The other thing I wanna talk about
is when it comes to dynamic routing.
It might not always be the case
that you don't know the URL in
which you want to use sometimes.
Sometimes you do know the URL, like let's
think about what's a good example of this?
Well, I guess in the case of documentation
or the case of documentation,
or maybe a blog post where there's
an opportunity, it is not so
dynamic where it's user generated content.
For instance, if your Facebook, you
wouldn't know all the IDs, you'd have to
query the database, give me every single
ID and then you would know all the IDs,
but that's just a massive operation,
why would you do that?
But I don't know, maybe you're writing
a blog post and you can go to a CMS and
get all the titles or all the slugs for
a blog post ahead of time.
So you could know them all if you
wanted to, and it's not that bad.
And maybe you want to generate those
pages statically ahead of time,
you wanna generate the routes.
Whereas right now what's happening is
the routes are the pages are basically
being generated dynamically because
we don't know what the URLs are.
We don't know what these values are, so
they're being generated dynamically as
in when someone goes to that route,
that's when that page gets rendered.
We can avoid all that and
instead send back a static version for
every instance of the page, right?
So, what I'm describing is,
every time I go to this page,
sure it's the same page for
every single ID here,
but the page gets executed on a server
every single time because it has to,
because the parameter changes, which means
you'll probably have different data.
To avoid that, we can send back a static
page that never gets executed other than
the first time for performance for things
that don't need to change like a blog
post or a documentation page, because
there's nothing dynamic about that.
Once you write it's always gonna be
that way until you publish it again.
So what you can do is you can generate and
tell Next.js, actually I wanna
make some of these pages static.
And Next.js I will say, well, what are
those URLs that you want to make static?
So you can use something
called generate static params,
which will allow you to tell Next.js
these are URLs that I know that I have.
I want you to go ahead and
render those at build time to HTML for
every single instance.
So that way when someone navigates to it,
you can just send them back that
HTML without you having to execute
that function again on the server
when someone navigates to it.
Does that make sense?
Okay, so the way that would work is
basically you can only do it, and
yeah, the rest of the stuff is just
me talking about the dynamic stuff,
but the way that that
works is you can only
do it inside of a page that comes
from something dynamic like this.
And then you just have to
send back a bunch of URLs.
I don't wanna get into it too much 'cause
we're gonna talk about it later in
the course,
but I just wanna just bring that up just
in case someone asks questions about it.
Cool, any other questions
>> People are asking about
query parameters?
Query parameters, Okay,
the thing about query parameters is,
it depends on where you want to
use the query, or where do you want
access to the query parameters.
Getting access to the query
parameters inside of the browser,
you couldn't use a server component,
you'd have to use a client component,
which you haven't talked about yet, but
actually nothing's really changed there.
You can get the query parameters any way
that you previously could have gotten
the query parameters, whether it's
through the window or through something
that Next.js actually provides, which is
called from next or actually, hold on.
Is it next location?
Or no, next router,
you can use the use router,
which will allow you to use a hook and
get the query parameters, but again,
this is only gonna work
on a client component.
I think they also have a,
what is the other one?
Use path.
Maybe not,
use routers the one you wanna use, but
that's only gonna work on client side.
For server side, if you wanna get the
query parameters, that's gonna depend on,
basically the query parameters are not
gonna be attached to these parameters.
Query parameters and
route parameters are gonna be two things.
So if you wanna get the query
parameters on the server side,
I don't think you have access
to them on the service side.
We can test that.
I'm almost positive if you don't.
Let's see.
Hello, There, see what that says?
Yeah, you're not gonna have access to
them here on a server side like that.
So you have to get that
on the client side,
which is usually why people
do query parameters.
It's like for that reason, so.
Cool, any other questions?
>> Someone said,
use search params is really easy for
query parameters client side.
>> Yeah, so there's a hook.
It's mostly all client side.
You're not gonna be able to get
access to them on server side.